# Review of building cimolini.com portfolio site

Overview of how I built my JAM Stack website
- Design considerations
- Infrastructure/provisioning
- Development environment
- Deployment
- Design
- Accessibility

## Design

I wanted to build a site that showed off my skills as a full stack web developer. This was going to show how to provision the server hosting through AWS using Terraform to provision. Then build a site with a CMS using the JAM Stack. And building everything in between registering a domain name to sharing the site on social media.

Picking the site technology was easy, I wanted to learn the [JAM Stack](https://jamstack.org/) so I picked it! Little did I know that was the first of a few decisions to make. I needed something to keep my content in. Images are just going to go in a static directory since I don't expect to have many images on the site. I could possibly use Google Photos as a data source. For the text content I was considering Markdown files but thought that a proper headless CMS was a more flexible choice. I found that Strapi met my requirements of open source, free licence, and self-hosted. For the site html/css/js itself I went with a static site generated by Gridsome. I like Vue and Gridsome provides a number of nice basic SPA features that are well suited to content first sites (like my resume/portfolio). To speed up development I considered using a component library but ended up going with just Tailwind. It doesn't come with any pre-built components but it's an excellent option for speeding up development of web components in React or Vue. It also provides consistent values for css properties through helper classes, so you can change the size of the "large" text everywhere it's used. An added benefit of using Strapi with a static site generator is I don't need to host the CMS anywhere other than locally. I'm using sqlite for the DB engine so I should look for a way to backup the database files, possibly in the git repo.

I would also like to have the site fully accessible. This is partly to show that I know how to build an accessible website, but mostly cause I like to use interfaces with my keyboard and I'd like to build the best keyboard interface for my website.

Finally to be a real full-stack web developer I think I should have an automated backup and deployment process to the S3 hosting.

I wanted a site that showed that I'm able to build websites using JavaScript/Node

## Infrastructure

Hosted in AWS, using S3 static site hosting.

Provisioning with Terraform

State stored in an S3 bucket

## Development Environment

JAM Stack site using Gridsome and Strapi.
Using Strapi as the CMS with Gridsome as the site generator. Using Tailwind plugin to build the styling.

## Deployment

s3-sync or something?

## Design

### Content first approach

Based off the standard structure of a resume. I figured it should have these sections:

#### Objective
Should be a title and a paragraph or two of text. Also should be targeted at an employer or client and fetched using a key.

#### Qualifications

Word salad of technologies and general qualifications. Title/abbreviation with a very short description. Link to applicable experience/education?

#### Education

- When? date range or single date
- Institution
- Program
- Credential
- text
- highligts (multiple)

#### Experience

Similar to Education, date range, company/client, descripion, highlights.

#### References

## Getting Strapi rich text fields to work in Gridsome

Strapi stores rich text as markdown in the database. Gridsome only outputs the raw markdown.

https://github.com/markedjs/marked

Using that in a vue method to format the text as html.

## Graph QL

Needed to get graphql layer working in spacemacs. Depends on [graphql-mode](https://github.com/davazp/graphql-mode) for emacs. Docs are rather sparse. Required that we create a .graphqlconfig file in the root of the project directory (./site/ dir). I needed to look through the Lisp code to determine the correct syntax for the JSON.

This should be a working file for Gridsome.
```json
{
    "schema": "http://localhost:8080/___graphql",
    "extensions": {
        "endpoints": {
            "default": {
                "url": "http://localhost:8080/___graphql"
            }
        }
    }
}
```
